---
layout: ../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: First Post
date: 2020-07-27
---

Hey everyone!

Welcome to the first post of my blog. I've been meaning to create a blog for a
while since I've enjoyed reading many other blogs, but I usually come to the
conclusion that the things that I'm interested in writing about aren't
interesting to others and eventually persuade myself not to. However, in order
to create this blog, I forced myself to create my own static-site generator
instead of using an existing one, which is hopefully enough push for me to take
the initiative and start posting things, but I plan on touching on that later.

For now, let's get into why I decided to create a blog.

### Why?

There are two main resources that finally pushed me to create a blog.

The first resource is [Pine Wu's blog](https://blog.matsu.io/). If you take a
look at his, you can see that a lot of the styling I used for my blog is
inspired (stolen?) from his. I really enjoyed the visually pleasing minimalistic
style that he incorporates, and I was inspired to use the same approach but with
my own twist. More importantly though, I enjoyed reading the different topics
that he touches upon, and it allowed me to gain more insight into his life
outside of the work he does in his GitHub and I hope to do the same.

The second resource is one of my friends from college, Mark Bacon
([here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCh7mi5sI3BSzKReLzXpgimA) is his YouTube
channel). Mark's passion in making videos that he likes making definitely gave
me the confidence to start writing about what I want to write about. The other
day he was actually telling me about how he finds it awkward filming some of his
videos, but is always surprised by great response that he gets back from the
community. So even though it might feel embarassing putting yourself out there,
it's only because you are perceive it that way while others may not.

So after all that, I encourage whoever is reading this to go check them out and
hopefully you enjoy viewing their content as much as I do!

### Goals

So I don't plan on this blog being very structured. I want to be able to write
about anything that comes to mind at anytime. So that means I don't want to
stick to a planned schedule since that might cause this blog to feel like a
chore. With that, I want to go into some of the goals I have.

1. **Not sticking to specific topics.** As mentioned before, I want to be able
   to write about anything that comes to mind. Since I study Computer Science,
   there might be some code that I present, but my main objective is not to
   become a coding blog. I want to use this more as a way to just share any
   insights that I think about during the day and not lose them.
1. **Improve writing skills.** This goal is inspired by Pine Wu's blog. I really
   liked reading what he had to say. I didn't think that by itself the things he
   talked about were very interesting, but I just liked hearing his take on it
   through his writing style. I hope that out of this blog, I come to enjoy
   writing more and become more well-rounded as a person.
1. **Helping others.** I'm not too sure how many people would come across my
   blog since I don't think I would be advertising it at all. But I hope that if
   someone does come across it, they enjoy some of my ideas, even though I am
   young and don't know too much.
1. **Reading this later.** Finally, I think it will be really cool if I could
   look back on this in the future!

Hopefully I will be able to stick to these goals, but only time will tell!

### Why Build My Own Site?

Finally I would like touch on a topic mentioned in the beginning of this post,
which is why e decided to create my own static-site generator. There are a
variety of static-site generators (SSGs) around, some of the most popular being
Jekyll and Hugo.

I first tried out Jekyll since it seems like the most popular and simplist.
However, after encountering issues trying to set up Ruby (the language used by
Jekyll), I decided that Jekyll was not for me since I won't be able to customize
it at all since I don't know any Ruby and wasn't even able to set it up.

Next I tried out Hugo. The setup for Hugo was very easy and there are a ton of
different themes that you could download and get started with. Everything was
good to go! I was just writing my first post (this is actually the second
version of the first post I have ever made) when I was thinking about all of the
customization that I wanted to do. I put the writing on hold and checked out the
docs, quickly losing patience and not wanting to go through all of that just to
make a website look the way I want it. So at that point, I finally decided to
create my own SSG.

So one great thing about the world of open source and large community supporting
all of us, is that a lot of cool and easy-to-use things are being made. One
instance I would like to touch on is React. I'm not expert in React and have
only used it a couple of times, but I can still see how it is a powerful tool
and why many people pick it up. It's become so popular that it's a priority to
learn, and that is the problem. To me it seems that so many people going into
the world of web development want to learn React as quick as possible. They
learn all about state, hooks, components and more, which is all great to know,
but causes them to overlook the basic foundation that still makes most of the
web: vanilla Javascript. When only focusing on learning only the popular
technologies, and frameworks in this case, we tend to forget what actually makes
them work. It sort of ends up becoming a magic box: you put something in and
something cool magically comes out.

If I were to use Hugo, or any other SSG out there, sure I would be able to
create something really cool right from the beginning. However, down the line, I
would have had to basically learn a whole new "technology" and read the docs on
how to make Hugo work the way I want to. This whole process could be greatly
simplified if I just made the foundation myself. Of course making the foundation
takes longer than setting Hugo up, but this way I would have control from start
to finish and be able to configure it the way I want to without trying to
interpret other people's intentions. Additionally, even though it wasn't the
hardest task ever, I was able to learn how SSGs are actually built.

The reason I included my ideas about React is to show that making things the
traditional way does not just apply to this SSG, but also to many of the
technologies we use everyday. It's important to always remember why things are
the way they are and how they are made up. I personally have a tendency to use
these technologies without thinking why and only thinking about how popular they
are. I'm happy that I made my own SSG because it's a small step away from that.

### Conclusion

This post is starting to get very long and might not make much sense towards the
end so I will start wrapping it up now (I don't plan on making these posts that
long in the future). If you got to the end, thank you for sticking around! I
hope that you didn't force yourself to read all of this and actually found it
enjoyable :)

Stay tuned for the next one!

### Related Content

- [Pine Wu's blog](https://blog.matsu.io/) - posts about Vue and life
- [Mark Bacon YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCh7mi5sI3BSzKReLzXpgimA) -
  great insight into productivity and motivation
